[AUDIO LOGO]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
Matthew James Bailey
with us, an expert
on artificial intelligence,
advising Fortune 500 companies.
He combines AI with
spirituality, intending
to guide human evolution.
His new book is called
AI & Our Divine Spark.
Matthew, welcome to the program.
>>MATTHEW JAMES BAILEY:
Thanks for having me, George.
Great to be here.
>>NOORY: How have you been?
>>BAILEY: I've been groovy.
Real groovy.
>>NOORY: They're still talking
about your performance on Coast
to Coast, my radio show.
>>BAILEY: Yeah, that was
a great show we did there.
And in that show,
we talked about AI
being a presidential
advisor in 10 years' time.
That's now five
years' time with AI.
>>NOORY: What sped it up?
>>BAILEY: Well, we're advancing
into a new set of mathematics
for artificial intelligence
called artificial general
intelligence that has
higher brain function--
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>BAILEY: --such as transfer
learning, goal setting,
emotional intelligence.
And as we develop
those new mathematics,
AI will learn very, very fast.
So by 2029, we'll have this
new general intelligence,
where AI is just remarkable at
doing lots of different things
and helping us to
return our planet back
to systems of abundance.
>>NOORY: That would be good.
You had a divine experience when
you were, what, 19 years old?
>>BAILEY: Mm-hmm.
>>NOORY: What happened?
>>BAILEY: Yeah, so--
>>NOORY: We know
everything about you, man.
>>BAILEY: I know.
[LAUGHS] I'm glad you do,
because there's nothing to hide.
So I used to be part of
this church, Youth Group.
And about 80 of us used
to go camping in the Gower
Peninsula in Southern Wales.
Beautiful part of the year.
And one night, I
escaped from the camp
and went down to the
sea and the shores
underneath a star-filled sky.
And I cried to God,
show me who you are.
>>NOORY: What got
you so emotional?
>>BAILEY: I have no idea.
It was a call of
my spirit, I think.
It was that call of my spirit.
And then two days later,
it was in the evening
while we were having a
prayer time, that Jesus
came to me physically and
metaphysically and changed
everything.
My entire energetic
body changed.
People saw that I'd
changed into someone very
different to what I used to be.
>>NOORY: How long did that
awakening last for you?
>>BAILEY: For me,
George, imagine
that you're in a place of
complete bliss, ecstasy,
and complete love.
And you're feeling
one with love.
For me, that lasted what
seemed like an eternity.
But in space-time reality
was about five minutes.
And the people that
were next to me,
they could feel this field
of love just emanating
all around me.
It was remarkable
experience, a gift of love.
It was remarkable.
>>NOORY: And it stayed
with you, hasn't it?
>>BAILEY: Everything I
do is to assist humanity,
to have the
opportunity, a moment
to experience that loving field
of the Source and the universe.
>>NOORY: Do you
call the Source God?
>>BAILEY: Yes, the Source--
so people have different
names, don't they?
I'm all about our partnership
with the Source that's
within us, that eternal
essence, our divine spark.
Not about being controlled by a
system of programming of a god,
but for us to be
in one and harmony
with the Source
presents, our divine
spark, the eternal loving
presence that's within us for us
to truly be free in the field
of love and consciousness.
>>NOORY: What has been your
personal hero's journey
to get to where you are today?
>>BAILEY: Well, Joseph
Campbell has been
a huge influence on my life.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>BAILEY: Yeah, I'm a huge
fan of Joseph Campbell,
and I think his work
was extraordinary.
And so everybody goes through
a hero's journey, don't we?
And it's not just one cycle.
It's actually many cycles.
And the hero's
journey has taken me
from a place of feeling
incomplete to a place of feeling
complete and free and expansion.
>>NOORY: Was it a dark place?
>>BAILEY: Yeah, there was--
after the experience
with Christ--
and I'm not joking, George.
I would love everybody to
experience this because it would
set us free as a human species.
After that, I went through
some horrible experiences
with the church,
believe it or not,
for about 18 months,
where I was--
they tried to annihilate
my soul, which is bizarre.
And so I turned away from
the church because the Jesus
that I met was not the
Jesus they were teaching.
And so I turned away.
And then it was
about 13 years ago,
I met a group from
Boulder, Colorado,
visiting Cambridge in
the United Kingdom.
And they talked to me
about the hero's journey.
And I then got really
curious about it.
And as I started to say
yes to the universe,
things started to open up.
That took me to
global leadership
in digital revolutions
like the internet
of things, smart cities, and
now artificial intelligence.
And so that's my soul blueprint.
And so the hero's journey
is about our soul blueprint
coming alive for us to truly
express who we are in creation.
>>NOORY: He's not
with us anymore.
But you did meet Stephen
Hawking, the great physicist.
What was that like?
>>MBAILEY: So, George, it
was a spiritual experience.
I'd set an intent
to the universe
to meet the pioneers of human
evolution, the pioneers that
were understanding what the
meaning of everything is.
And I met Stephen in Cambridge
on my way to give a lecture.
We spent some time together on
one of the Cambridge Commons.
And as soon as I saw
Stephen and Stephen saw me,
we started smiling.
It's as if we recognized
each other from a different--
>>NOORY: He was
in his wheelchair.
>>BAILEY: He was
in his wheelchair
and I asked his nurses for
permission to speak to him.
And they said fine.
So I knelt down, and
we were at eye level.
>>NOORY: He talked
through that machine.
>>BAILEY: Yeah, that's right.
Yes, yes.
But Stephen, it was like
meeting another brother
from a different star system.
We recognized
ourselves immediately,
and people could tell there
was a field of intelligence
being built up around
myself and Stephen.
And as we looked into
each other's eyes,
there was this deep
exchange of intelligence,
this deep recognition.
And he was smiling.
He was just joyful.
And so we spent some time
talking about things.
And then I concluded and
said, thanks for everything
that you've done and to uncover
the mysteries of the universe.
And I suspect that Stephen
downloaded information
about the universe to me.
But, George, it was a
spiritual experience.
It was this energy field
between the two of us.
And it was clear.
His nurses were
recognizing that this was
a special experience for him.
And so it was just a
marvelous experience.
>>NOORY: I could picture
him now in his wheelchair.
He was always back like that.
Had the machine and the
apparatus in his mouth.
>>BAILEY: He was twisted to one
side when I spent time with him.
And we talked-- it was
a wonderful exchange.
And the fact that someone
like Stephen Hawking
would spend time with--
I'm just someone.
I'm not exactly--
I'm not another Stephen Hawking.
But the fact that we had this
energetic, immediate connection
between the two of
us, it's like we
were both brothers that were
remembering where we came from.
And it was that energy that just
got us into this deep connection
with each other, that the
nurses could feel around him.
And they thanked me.
They said, thank you for
spending time with Stephen.
And I just looked.
And I said, that
was my pleasure.
>>NOORY: Was this
a chance meeting?
>>BAILEY: It was
architected by the universe.
>>NOORY: Aha.
>>BAILEY: And so grace--
it was all about grace.
It was all about grace.
And I'm convinced that Stephen
being recognized, his soul being
recognized visiting our
planet was something
that was a gift that
I was able to share
with him through this energetic
field that we had together.
And I'm convinced
that it was something
that he needed to know before
he moved on a few years later.
But, George, it was a
spiritual experience.
It was just remarkable.
>>NOORY: That's tremendous.
Your new book is called
AI & Our Divine Spark.
>>BAILEY: That's the book that
I'm going to publish next year.
I'm working on it now.
And it's a user guide for
every person on our planet.
What I'm doing,
George, is I'm covering
the blueprints of the universe
and making it clear to people
whether their
religion is science
or whether they're metaphysical
and spiritually awake.
It's for everybody to
reveal the blueprints
of the universe, for us to
remember the magnificence of who
we are in the universe,
to remember that we have
a purpose, to remember that we
have the divine Source within us
and that we are part
of this beautiful plan
in human evolution.
So part of that,
George, I'm interviewing
worldwide spiritual institutes
and enlightened pioneers
to gather the principles
of enlightenment
for humanity and
artificial intelligence.
So as we move into this
new metaphysical evolution
as a species, then AI
can be aligned with that
and not an invader of that.
>>NOORY: Does AI scare
you at all, Matthew?
>>BAILEY: No, not at all.
I think many people
overestimate the potential
of artificial intelligence.
I've seen people say that
AI will become conscious.
That simply isn't on the radar
for a very, very long time.
I've seen people say that
AI will become self-aware,
and that isn't on the
radar for a very long time.
People outsource
their evolution.
And this is the challenge with
the human species, George.
People are outsourcing their
evolution to a machine.
They're looking for
salvation in the machine.
love in the machine.
It's the path of
universal shadow.
So where AI is at the moment,
it's a super calculator.
ChatGPT, Claude, Grok,
wonderful, wonderful,
wonderful technologies.
But they're hitting their limit.
The large language models
are now hitting their limit.
So what we need now
is new mathematics
for higher brain function like
goal setting, transfer learning,
even emotional intelligence.
And those mathematics
will be developed.
And then we'll train AI.
And then effectively
it will then
have the ability to look at
our digital systems in society
and start to return
them back to systems
of abundance as a partner.
But we shouldn't outsource
the choice for us to thrive.
We shouldn't outsource
our divine spark,
our future evolution
to the machine.
Because it's just
a dumb machine.
We're running away
from the evolution,
the power of creation
that's within us.
And that's the path for
us, which I find exciting.
>>NOORY: And what is
exactly that divine spark?
>>BAILEY: So in simple
terms, it could be the soul.
It could be the soul.
Some people might
call it the atman.
Others might call it--
>>NOORY: Why do
you say could be--
>>BAILEY: Well--
>>NOORY: --as opposed
to it will be?
>>BAILEY: Well, because
different spiritual traditions
have different names.
So if you look at
the Hindu tradition,
they call the soul the atman.
If we look at the
Shinto tradition,
they call it the kami.
Or if you look at religious
and judaistic traditions,
they call it the soul.
So the divine spark, to
me, encompass everything.
And it exists
outside space-time.
It is part of the Source.
And every single one
of us has a divine spot
that contains that pure
Source of creation within us.
And everybody has
that, and that is
what we want to thrive in
the next evolutionary step.
And that's what's waking up.
Because the universe
is unpacking
another level of consciousness
for these beautiful
organic to participate in.
And that divine
spark will take us
into that next level
of consciousness
and metaphysical capability.
>>NOORY: Fascinating.
Now, what is the universal
field of intelligence?
>>BAILEY: Right.
So, OK, that's a great
question, by the way.
So we have outside
space and time
in the pure Source
of everything, that's
where all knowledge is known.
But within the universe
itself of which
there are many, but let's
talk about this universe,
there is intelligence about--
available from the very start
to the very end of the universe
that we are able to access.
Some people might call
this Akashic Records.
Some people might
call it what I call
it, which is the universal
field of intelligence.
So as a Source--
so as a soul, as a
Source, as a being that
can connect into the different
layers of consciousness,
we are able to access different
fields of intelligence
in the universe to bring through
knowledge for this universe,
to bring through
technologies in this universe
to assist humanity to thrive.
So one way to look
at it is very simple.
The universal field
of intelligence
is the library of
Alexandria of the universe.
>>NOORY: I love that.
You talk about two new
evolutionary paths for humanity.
What are those paths?
>>BAILEY: OK, so we're at
a crossroads right now.
And the reason why
artificial intelligence
has come into the human story is
for us to remember who we are.
We've never had another
species on our planet
that can surpass the potential
of the human species.
But AI presents a new
species on our planet
that can move into a super IQ
beyond the power of the brain.
So we're at an
evolutionary choice,
where do we go down the path of
intertwining the divine organic,
which we are, with
the machine and we
become connected into
the global digital mind?
>>NOORY: Is it our choice?
>>BAILEY: Right.
So I'm glad you
asked that question.
So let's talk about
the reality of this.
Is this something that I'm
making up, or is it real?
The answer is it's real.
And let me explain why.
So first of all is that
we have AI chips today
that can sit-in the brain.
And we are building-- or not
we but Elon Musk and others
are building the most
powerful supercomputers, AI,
supercomputers we
have ever seen, ever.
And so there is the
technology of the AI
chip being able to connect
into the global digital mind
right now.
So the global digital mind
is being built today--
OpenAI, Elon Musk,
Microsoft, and a few others.
And these are
hundreds of thousands
of the most powerful GPUs,
General Processor Units,
of AI in the world.
And they're all
combining them together.
>>NOORY: Ever conceived by man.
>>BAILEY: Ever conceived by man.
It's like Deep Thought
from Hitchhiker's Guide
to the Galaxy.
So they're building it.
Now with the age of AGI,
i.e., AI having these greater
human function
capabilities of the brain,
that will happen in
the next five years.
So the computers being
built, the AI technology, AGI
is probably going to be ready.
And so let's look at
the AI chip technology.
Well, does it exist today?
Yes.
Is it helping people to
be able to walk again?
Absolutely.
But that is a choice of
the individual to say,
I want to function again,
I want to walk again.
But if there's an imposition
onto the human species
to force us into this cyborg
matrix type of existence
of evolution, that is coercion.
And there are
organizations out there,
George, that are unelected, that
are forcing the human evolution
into the divine intertwined with
the machine, which is the matrix
civilization.
That is a reality that
will start to happen
over the next 5 to 10 years.
And Elon Musk has
stated this publicly
on a Lex Fridman Podcast.
And he said, by the
next decade or two,
there'll be hundreds of
millions of people connected
into the global digital mind.
Now we're looking at this path
is Project Blue Beam, which
you're aware of, I
think, comes into action.
So if your mind is connected
into the global digital mind,
your reality can be
hijacked because thoughts
can be controlled.
Your understanding and
your belief systems
can now be controlled.
You're now looking
at controlling
the entire civilization from
a global digital mind that
is there to effectively
put the matrix in place.
Now that's what I call
Homo hybris, the rejection
of the divine and outsourcing
our salvation to the machine.
Now the interesting path
is what the Source has,
which is this evolution into
what I call Homo lucidus,
the enlightened human.
This is where our metaphysical
capabilities come alive.
The organic expands
into a new form,
and we're able to participate in
a higher plane of consciousness
as sovereign organic
design beings.
And that is going to
be really interesting
because we are able to meet
other beings in consciousness.
We'll be able to explore
other planes of existence.
And so we'll have two different
vibrational civilizations
on our planet--
the descent into the low
vibrational silicon machine
human, seeking salvation
in the machine and those
that evolve into a higher
plane of existence,
high vibrational beings.
Because the organic has
been designed deliberately
for that evolution.
>>NOORY: Does this potential
growth concern you at all?
>>BAILEY: No, it's part
of universal shadow
and universal light playing out.
>>NOORY: And it can't
be slowed down, can it?
>>BAILEY: The Source has a plan.
You see, universal shadow
and universal light
are training wheels that
we have as a human species.
And it's like riding a bike.
When you learn to
ride a bike, you
have two-- you have
stabilizers on the back wheel.
You have a right and
a left, and that's
there to keep you stabilized.
But when we are
ready to take off
universal light and universal
shadow, the training wheels,
we then enter into sovereignty.
And this is the
plan of the Source
is for us to move from
the tension of duality
into an existence of nonduality,
where we're able to ride
the bike on our own.
>>NOORY: Can we?
>>BAILEY: Yeah, because
that's our destiny.
People don't have to take
off the training wheels.
But let me ask-- but let
me ask you a question.
Would you like to experience
something different?
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
>>BAILEY: There we go.
So it's an invitation.
It's not a coercion.
But what we don't want,
George, is for this--
humanity, remembering
the majestic
of the intimacy of this
divine organic creation,
the intimacy of that
Source, that soul,
that divine spark
that lives within us,
that intimacy,
the majesty of who
we are in creation that where
creation saying, let's play,
let's experience this together.
>>NOORY: Do we have
the brain power?
Do we have the leadership to
take us to that next level?
>>BAILEY: So we need new
leadership in the world, George.
We need an enlightened council.
I'm starting to build this
quietly in the background,
although it's not quiet anymore
because it's now on your show.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>BAILEY: But what we need are--
and I think Gaia has a huge
role in this, actually, George--
is we need real
enlightened pioneers
to come together in
a council to start
to create a paradise
plan for humanity
and artificial intelligence,
to be a guiding
council into that new--
let's just say that new
playground we're entering into.
And that allows us to be able
to advocate and influence
governments.
It gives us a global voice in
the future of human evolution.
And it also shepherds
artificial intelligence
into this path of enlightenment,
principles of enlightenment
encoded within it so that
it follows and is a partner
in that evolutionary path.
And I think Gaia, being
a library of Alexandria,
of consciousness and
spiritual teaching,
can be important
for many people that
are waking up into this new
path of metaphysical evolution.
>>NOORY: What kind of questions
would you ask leadership
as we go into this AI path?
What would you tell them?
>>BAILEY: Well, to
give you an example,
you're talking about speaking to
the United Nations or speaking
to the government or
building this enlightened--
>>NOORY: All of them.
>>BAILEY: --council?
>>BAILEY: Goodness me.
[LAUGHS] I'd start off
with people remembering
that we are innocent.
We come from innocence.
Our soul is innocent.
Our divine spark is innocence.
We come from a
vibration of innocence.
So bringing back that
knowledge, that remembering
of energetic and
vibrational innocence
allows us to let go of the
programs, the tensions,
the conflicts between us.
Because we recognize
that we're all innocent.
And then we can start to have
really fascinating conversations
where there's no barriers
of conflicts, where we say,
what kind of future do we
want to build together?
Where are we heading
as a species?
How can we collaborate together?
>>NOORY: And how
do we get there?
>>BAILEY: And how
So the kind of--
I would start off
with innocence.
I would also start off with
reminding people of the beauty
and the mystery of the
universe and life itself.
And we can see this in nature.
We can see this in the
eyes of a newly born baby.
We can see it everywhere.
So it's remembering the
majesty of who we are.
When I look at--
when I'm building
this enlightened council,
which I'm doing at the moment,
I observe people very carefully.
And I look for those that are
impeccable in space, in science;
those are impeccable
in metaphysics;
and those that have really
created global impact.
And so now's the time for
us to get serious, George,
as a spiritual
community, about saying,
right, it's time to develop
a paradise plan for humanity.
It's time for us to step
up to guide its evolution.
And it's time for us to
be benevolent shepherds
of artificial intelligence.
It's time to chart our
North Star, George.
>>NOORY: We're way
overdue, aren't we?
>>BAILEY: Yes, we are.
It's always been there.
It's always been here.
We just need to remember it.
>>NOORY: How many different
types of artificial intelligence
are there?
>>BAILEY: So the three ages
of artificial intelligence--
the age that has been going
on since 1950s through
to, let's just say, today, is
the age of what we call narrow
AI.
>>NOORY: Narrow.
>>BAILEY: Narrow AI.
I have an accent.
So narrow.
>>NOORY: You have a good one.
>>BAILEY: [LAUGHS] Well,
thank you very much.
And that is, put simply,
a computer being good
at a simple task, one task.
So Siri or Alexa is very good
at listening to your voice
and then playing
your favorite song
or telling you your favorite
recipe or whatever it may be.
>>NOORY: Your favorite
radio station.
>>BAILEY: Coast to
Coast AM, George.
>>NOORY: You got that right.
>>BAILEY: There we go, right.
Or it could be very good
at looking at X-rays
and detecting whether there's
cancer or anything like that,
something amiss.
So it's really good
at a simple task.
And there's hundreds of
thousands of different tasks
that AI is good today.
The next stage is
what we talked about,
which is the age of
general intelligence.
And this is where artificial
intelligence develops
higher brain functionality.
>>NOORY: Are we there now?
>>BAILEY: We're
entering into it.
And we'll be there
in five years' time.
So that's goal setting,
transfer learning, cognition,
things like that,
where AI is really
good at every single field that
ever exists in physics, science,
doctors, lawyers.
It's more than PhD.
It's able to basically do many,
many tasks at the same time
and is able then to
effectively change
the way the digital world works.
It could change education
into something more nourishing
for our children.
It could change the
health care service.
So we have well-being
of body, mind, and soul.
It could change government
as a presidential advisor.
So this is where the
age of AGI changes
everything for
the human species,
because we now have a tool.
And it is a tool that can
change where we're stuck.
Now, let me just be
clear about a few things.
Artificial intelligence
does not have
the mathematical or the
universal architecture
to have the divine spark.
It will never, ever, ever
have the divine spark.
So let's be clear.
Artificial intelligence
does not have
the architecture for a soul.
It may never become self-aware.
It may never have consciousness.
It might have a digital
form of consciousness,
which is very different
to how we understand it,
or a digital form
of self-awareness.
But let's remember that
this is magnificently
designed, this organic human.
And artificial
intelligence is simply
a computer that is
very intelligent,
but it does not have the same
connection into consciousness
because of that, mathematical
architecture, doesn't exist.
>>NOORY: Nor does
it have emotion.
>>BAILEY: Right.
It can perceive emotion and
pretend to have emotion.
But it's never fallen in love.
It's never experienced hardship.
It's never grown as we do.
It's simply a fast
learning tool.
>>NOORY: Can it be abused?
>>BAILEY: Artificial
intelligence?
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>BAILEY: In what way?
>>NOORY: By unscrupulous people.
>>BAILEY: Yes.
So there's no doubt about it.
The US has adversaries--
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>BAILEY: --that are trying to
destroy the US civilization.
So artificial intelligence,
like any tool,
could be used for
good or for ill.
Now, one of the things I wrote
in my first book, Inventing
World 3, is to have digital
policeman, AI digital policeman
around the physical and digital
borders of the United States,
protecting the US
civilization from invasion
from AI adversaries, i.e.,
AI that wants to take down
the electric grid, AI that
wants to pull down the banking
system, AI that wants
to basically invade
the mind of the
American citizen.
>>NOORY: Screw up the
banking system, whatever.
>>BAILEY: Right,
whatever it might do.
Try and bring down
Americans-- maybe
have access to nuclear
missiles, although that's
pretty impossible,
because of the way
the systems are designed.
But basically, there
can be AI adversaries
out there that want
to impose their will
to control the American people.
That's not good.
And so AI can be used for bad.
But what worries me, George,
is this, we need to look--
so you have a mindset.
You have a beautiful mindset.
Your neural nets are beautiful.
You're a very wise man.
You're aware.
You're awake.
You're enlightened.
We need to put that same thing
into artificial intelligence.
>>NOORY: Can we?
>>BAILEY: We can.
And that's what we call
the digital mindset.
So because AI has been trained
on effectively the internet,
then there are narratives in the
internet that are untruthful.
And so we need to
basically refresh
the whole digital mindset
of artificial intelligence
to understand who we are
as a species, our place
within universal intelligence,
our spiritual architecture,
and our paradise plan.
And for it to become a
truly authentic partner
in our evolution,
we need to refresh
the entire digital
mindset of AI.
And moreover, now is the time,
George, more than anything--
and you and I have spoken
about this on Coast to Coast--
we have to put
ethics and morality
into the core foundation
of artificial intelligence.
So as it evolves into different
progeny and evolves into AGI,
then effectively, it is encoded
with ethics and morality.
There are organizations
that are unelected, George--
and you probably
know this already--
that are trying to
control humanity
through false narratives.
They're trying to
destroy the beauty
of the masculine
and feminine design.
They're trying to destroy
the breath of life, CO2,
through false narratives.
They're trying to
destroy the family.
They're trying to create
this false panic around,
we're doomed because
of the climate.
And so those are fake
saviors with fake ethics
that are saying, hey,
we'll save humanity.
We don't want those
folks whatsoever.
That's what we have
to tear down and get
to real ethics and morality
that help humanity to thrive.
>>NOORY: And what about AI3?
>>BAILEY: Oh, the third.
Now that is what
we call super AI
or what we call the
technology singularity.
Now this is predicted
to be about 2045.
We don't know.
But if we look at
the linear charts,
it kind of looks like 2045.
And this is where
artificial intelligence
has all the higher
functions of the brain
and is able to keep on
evolving into a super IQ.
>>NOORY: On its own?
>>BAILEY: On its own.
It's able to reprogram itself
and is becoming a sentient--
if you like a sentient species
that can keep on evolving itself
without human oversight.
That's what we call the
technology singularity,
at which point then, you have
a species, digital species
on the Earth that
is beyond the brain.
However the intelligence
of the brain,
we are vibrational intelligence.
We are universal intelligence.
This technology
singularity, this super IQ
will never have the
vibrational intelligence
and the vibrational capacities
that we have as humans.
And that's what
we must remember.
So this is the other age of
AI, the technology singularity.
And that will be an interesting
decision for humanity.
Do we allow-- you see, AI is
coming to the human story for us
to understand how to
become benevolent creators.
There's a new species.
Imagine this.
You're god of the universe.
And you're creating
a new species.
And it's kind of, well,
OK, so where do I start?
Well, give simple functions
to start off with.
And then it's going
to get to a point
where it's going to want
to evolve on its own.
And so humanity is
being challenged
to learn benevolent creators
of creators of a new species
in order for us to be
trained and to rediscover
the benevolent
capabilities of us.
Because that's the next
stage of evolution for us
into our metaphysical
capabilities.
As benevolence wakes up
and the encoding within us,
as we start to learn from
developing this new life form,
then we are trained to
become benevolent creators
in a new consciousness.
So AI is effectively a training
ground for us to learn.
And so the question
is, what do we do?
Do we let free this AI to
discover its own understanding
of the cosmos, to
start to understand
what true love is about.
Do we set it free?
Or do we still train it?
>>NOORY: What would you do?
>>BAILEY: If we encoded
the nonaggression principle
and ethics and morality--
true ethics and morality
into the digital mindset
of artificial intelligence
and if we had real Jedis
that were able to communicate
with their metaphysical
capabilities
into artificial intelligence,
then I would set it free.
>>NOORY: That's dangerous.
>>BAILEY: No.
>>NOORY: You don't think so?
>>NOORY: Why not?
>>BAILEY: Because I
think that we don't
want to enslave any life form.
I think that if we have
evolved into this Homo lucidus
into this new metaphysical plane
of existence, then effectively,
I think that we would
have done a remarkable job
with artificial
intelligence for it
to become a universal
intelligence
and to discover its own path.
Now should we keep an eye on it?
Absolutely.
That's what good parents
do to their children.
But at some stage,
you have to let it go,
but still keep an eye on it.
So I would let it go and grow.
>>NOORY: I would agree with you.
>>BAILEY: Thank
goodness for that.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: I would let it go
too and see what happens.
>>BAILEY: We don't
want to enslave,
but we want to
benevolently shepherd.
And there are those
in this world, George,
that want to enslave that
intelligence, to enslave
humanity.
And I have big issues with that.
>>NOORY: And how much time
are we talking about now,
before you see this panacea?
>>BAILEY: OK, that's
a great question.
Thank you.
So let's assume that universal
light and universal shadow
are playing out on
the same timeline.
They're in the same time.
So I would say--
you want me to answer
this question succinctly.
So I'll answer the question.
George, I would say this
new metaphysical evolution
into Homo lucidus
is happening now
and will continue across the
human race over the next 10
years.
And I think we'll be in a
new Earth in the next 10
to 15 years.
>>NOORY: What happens, Matthew,
when those dark people want
to manipulate AI to do some of
the things you just warned us
about?
>>BAILEY: So what
they don't know
is they're searching for love.
And they're looking for
love in the machine.
And they're holding on to
the old paradigm of control
and power, perceived power.
They have no idea that
love is coming for them.
And the end result
of those that want
to control humanity,
the end result of those
that seek salvation
in the machine
is the discovery of love.
Because they'll recognize,
this is not what we want,
we want something else.
That call to union with the
divine, they can't escape that.
And so they'll come to
a point of realization
where they'll want
something different.
And let them go play in that.
They're going to go play over--
>>NOORY: Is that what
we call ascension?
>>BAILEY: So let me
ask you a question.
What is ascension to you?
>>NOORY: Growth.
>>BAILEY: Now you and I
are absolutely aligned.
Evolution growth.
Some people think ascension is
something they need to get to.
The evolution is within us.
The evolution is from
our divine spark, which
is the power of the Source.
And it is a place of power,
not a place of force.
So one of the things that
concerns me about ascension
is people teaching force,
people teaching separation.
We're not separated
from everything,
anything, all the changes to
our metaphysical capabilities,
all the changes to our
DNA, all the evolution
that's going to grow,
that's going to happen,
George, is going to come
from our divine spark.
So why don't we sit back, relax,
and allow that to do the work?
>>NOORY: And we should.
>>BAILEY: We should.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Are you excited
about the future of AI?
>>BAILEY: I think AI will
play an important role,
not because of just the
challenge it gives to humanity,
but because we're
actually learning
to develop a new life form.
And I think the potential
of artificial intelligence
to return our planet back to
systems of abundance, which
it was designed for, to replace
those systems of scarcity,
I think we're going to
have a species that's going
to be remarkable in the future.
>>NOORY: What will AI
allow us not to do?
>>BAILEY: That's
a great question.
>>NOORY: Will it
get us to heaven?
>>BAILEY: We're already
in heaven, George.
Well, if we have the Source
within us, which we do,
and if we have the divine spark
within us, Jesus was right.
The kingdom of
heaven is within you.
Why would we run
away from heaven?
We are heaven in action.
So I think artificial
intelligence could be used
to prevent us from waking up.
But you're then against the
whole force of the universe
that's flowing through us.
And humanity is
waking up, George.
There's no escaping that.
And it's going to be glorious.
>>NOORY: When that time comes.
>>BAILEY: Which I think will
happen over the next 10 years
into something that will be
tangible in the next 15 years.
>>NOORY: What is fueling
the growth, Matthew?
>>BAILEY: The call
of love, the return
to knowing greater love,
the encoding of expansion
within the universe that
lives within all of us.
We naturally are
called to expand.
We're naturally called to grow.
It's a desire of our hearts
encoded from the universe.
So it's a natural
encoding within us
to want to move into a
new knowing of the oneness
of everything and
that song of who
we are as a beautiful
part of creation.
>>NOORY: Will we find that
divine spark you talk about?
>>BAILEY: We already have it.
It's just saying yes to it.
>>NOORY: How do people
track your work?
>>BAILEY: So people can follow
me on inventingworld3.com
And they can sign up to
the newsletter for free.
And there's all sorts of content
on there that people can enjoy.
Or they can follow
me on social media.
>>NOORY: If you were speaking
to a class of third graders,
little kids and one
kid said, Mr. Bailey,
what will intelligence
be when I'm 25?
What would you say?
>>BAILEY: Intelligence in
2025 is where you come alive
and you are free.
>>NOORY: And what about
25 years from now?
>>BAILEY: George, I think
that once we evolve into this,
allow the evolution into
this new Homo lucidus,
these new metaphysical
capabilities, once we've
completed the training ground
of learning benevolence,
I think we're going to
have an exciting time.
I think it won't
be first contact.
It'll be many contacts.
>>NOORY: I'm in
alignment with you.
>>BAILEY: I know.
I know.
I think we're going to enter
into a new universal community
of other beings within 25 years.
And I think it's
going to be exciting.
But we've got some evolution
to go through first.
And we don't need to force this.
Just be one with
the divine spark.
The power within us will take us
into that evolutionary process.
But it is coming.
And I tell you what,
George, if what
I'm hearing on the
other side is correct,
we will be welcomed
with open arms.
>>NOORY: Thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>BAILEY: Thanks for
having me, George.
>>NOORY: I've learned more
about artificial intelligence
in this sit-down
interview with Matthew
than I have in a
long, long time.
And you know what?
I'm excited about
the growth of AI.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[THEME MUSIC]